So now let's talk about classification and object detection problems for medical images.
First, I would like you to take a look at this photograph.
This photograph is a screenshot from a Google Photo Library,
and they made assertion this library by the term animal.
So you know that the classification algorithms for computer vision,
for traditional 2D images,
they're all around us, and the Google Photo Library is no exception.
When I typed animal here,
the Google Photo Library ran its own they went into
a pre-process database of images which has been
classified with respect to various categories,
and found those which have been classified as animals.
So let's look a little bit at what we see here.
So we see that some of those images have actual live animals in them.
We have some cats here.
We have a star fish,
we have some seals in here.
Some of the images have dead animals,
like this image is from the fish market,
and some of the images have sculptures that look like animals,
like pictures from photo galleries,
and one name which even has a stick that looks like an animal.
Which brings us to an interesting question.
So how should we think about classification and object detection problems,
with respect to medical images?
So what types of constraints should we put on our algorithms?
There is a wide variety of problems,
and understanding those problems is essential to understanding how to properly configure,
and train your machine learning algorithms.
So let's hear from Mason about some of
the clinical applications for classification and object detection algorithms.
Now that you have a broad overview of classification in machine-learning task,
let's discuss some ideal use cases.
The first category is the rapid detection of
conditions which need to be urgently addressed.
That is, in acute or emergency scenarios.
For example, we see here on the left a normal head CT,
and on the right, an image of
a hemorrhage within a portion of the brain stem known as the ponds.
Because these observations can be picked up
by a trained observer in the vast majority of cases,
the real value for such use case would be to have an algorithm running at the point of
image acquisition to alert the radiologists that this needs to be prioritized.
That is, list prioritization.
Or in circumstances where an expert is not available,
for example, in resource constrained environments.
Object detection also lends itself well to screening use cases.
A situation in which an otherwise healthy person is being
evaluated for a common condition given their underlying risk factors.
One such task is the detection of pulmonary nodules,
which while most commonly are benign,
can represent an early cancer.
The value of automated detection is in
aiding the viewer and finding the observations more quickly.
As these tests can be very labor-intensive,
a normal human fatigue can lead to error.
Detecting incidental findings is another important use case.
Incidental findings are observations which may
not be related to the immediate clinical issue at hand,
but nevertheless, need to be further addressed in the near future.
Such incidental low mass,
as they're sometimes colloquially referred to,
encompass such things as adrenal nodules,
complex kidney cysts, and pancreatic cysts, just to name a few.
Because they're not the focus of attention,
they're at risk of being overlooked even to
the vigilance specialist if they're in an emergent circumstance.
In this example, we see on the left and normal CT of the abdomen,
and on the right, a low density nodule arising from the left adrenal.
While this finding is most commonly benign,
unless it matches certain characteristics,
we really can't say for sure.
This may need to be followed up with either an interval image,
or a new type of imaging modality for further characterization